Next up we have a third option for making requests via javascript.
This is not a built in option.
It's not native javascript like fetch or exit chars.
It is a external library called axioms.
It's one of many a whole bunch of different HDP libraries that you could use.
Excuse is just the most popular.
I prefer it over some of the other alternatives but it is by no means the one and only option.
It's just the one that I like and it's one that you'll be using throughout the rest of the course and
a lot of the projects where we need to make requests so you can find it by going to get hub slash axes.
If you google for ex CEOs there is this news Web site Acciona which is actually pretty decent but that's
not what we're looking for.
We're looking for the Expos GitHub so you could just do access HDP.
Here we go.
This is the official get Hub Repository.
You can see it has a ton of stars.
It's used by almost 2 million people.
Very popular library.
So all it does is it simplifies the process of making requests.
It uses fetch behind the scenes so it doesn't give us anything we can't already do.
It's not somehow magically adding features to the language of JavaScript.
It just simplifies things through a bunch of methods and objects that it creates that we can interact
with.
It is promise based just like fetch.
So that means that we don't have to deal with a bunch of nasty callbacks.
You can get a nice overview of the features here but one of the most important features that people
really like is that you can use it both in the client on the browser side of things which is what we're
doing right now but also on the server side using no J.S. the exact same library which is not always
the case.
So we haven't talked about node but in some of the projects we will work with node and you'll see how
you can include a tool like axes on the server side using Node and use the exact same syntax.
So one library one way of fetching data let's say access get is the name of the method that will work
in the browser and in no J.S. but that's beyond the scope of where we are right now.
So the first thing we need to do if we want to use axioms is we need to include it in our HMO file as
an external script so you can download it and have the files on your machine.
But the simplest way is to copy this C.D. in right here.
So a script where the source is set to an external source it's not one of our files on our machine.
This is a URL and if we visit it right now this is what we would be loading.
This is the source of excuse.
It's been minimized and compressed into this massive chunk of very ugly text but this gives us everything
we need to use excuse so we'll include that script and we definitely want to make sure we include it
before our own files that are trying to use excuse.
Otherwise we'll get an error if we reference x post in our app Jesus and we have this line down below.
Javascript won't know about axioms yet.
OK so let's first bit next.
How do we actually make a request.
There are a couple of different options.
There's actually quite a few we can perform a get request like this.
Axioms dot get and then we pass in a euro.
So it's kind of the same thing with fetch or we do fetch you know Google dot com or something.
Instead we do X those that get Google dot com.
Why don't we just make sure the library is showing up so I'll refresh my page here.
X years intro we'll look at axioms.
Okay.
It exists.
If we call axioms don't get and we pass in some U.R.L..
Let's let's use the Star Wars API again.
This you are L right there.
The same one we've been using swap eco slash API slash planets.
I get a promise back.
Why didn't I save it to a variable.
We'll call this const rez and we look at rez.
It's now been resolved.
So just like fetch we get a promise back when we make a request using axioms.
Let's take a look at the value that it's been resolved with inside we have a data property and it's
already been passed for us.
We don't have to pass it ourselves.
That's one of the main advantages of using a tool like axioms is that unlike fetch we don't have to
do the chase on passing on our own.
If we go back to our fetch example from earlier we'll just uncommon the whole thing every time we make
a request using fetch.
I've moved these into separate functions.
If you didn't watch that video observe moves fetch next planets into its own function it returns fetch
which is going to return a promise.
Then we check the status code and we pass.
So we have to check the status quo to make sure that the response is OK because fetch will resolve the
promise as long as we get any response.
It doesn't matter if it's a for or for an error not found or if it's two hundred OK.
Status Code.
So if we want to weed out those bad status codes we have to manually do it.
Then we have to pass on our own response.
Jason.
If we instead use axioms.
Those are not really a problem anymore.
We do axioms that get this U.R.L. we'll do a dot then it does return a promise.
As we've seen.
Let's call this rez console that log rez
refresh our page.
Okay.
Red Dot data
it's already been passed as we saw.
We don't have to handle an additional promise.
Right.
Because when we use fetch response dot Jason returns a promise that we have to use a dot then.
So we end up with chaining multiple dot then.
And it's not that ugly or anything.
It's not the end of the world but we do have to pass on our own.
We get a string of Jason that needs to be turned into javascript.
Actually I was already takes care of that for us so it's doing the same thing behind the scenes.
It's getting a string of days on it it's passing it but we just don't write it.
It does it for us which is pretty nice.
Now let's see what happens.
We add on a sketch.
Go with error as our parameter and cancel that log error.
I'll do this on multiple lines
so right now unless somehow my internet went down or the API went down we still get our dot then callback.
But if I try and request a resource that doesn't exist.
This should give me a forum for error.
Let's see what happens here.
Check it out.
Request failed with a status code for a 4 error.
My catch is what ran.
We can make that clearer console dot log in catch callback
the promise is being rejected.
So this is another key difference between axioms and fetch.
When we did fetch when we used fetch we had to manually check the response the status code because fetch
does not reject a promise if status code is 400 or something else that is not OK something other than
two hundred which is what we want Acciona and its developers or developer.
Not sure how many there are actually those knows that.
Typically if there's a 4 or 4 or some other status code that is not 200 OK you're going to want the
catch callback to run which is what we're doing here anyway.
I'm throwing an error which then triggers this catch callback so it just simplifies things in two ways.
As we've seen already one you don't have to pass gates on to.
You don't have to weed out the bad status codes responses with a non 200 status code will be rejected
or at least I don't think it's every single non 200 status code.
But the bad ones like 4 or 4.
So that is it for now.
I'll show you a few more examples with axioms.
In the next video.
Otherwise it works exactly the same way.
It returns promised.
Chain with dot then if I wanted to make a second request we'll see that in the next video we just return.
Another axiom stuck get just like we did with fetch.
So to summarize this so far xmas is an external library.
We have to include it if we don't include it there.
We'll run into issues we'll get an error saying I don't know what the heck you're talking about.
Acciona is not defined once we include yos we can reference axis dot get which is the method we've been
using.
There are other methods.
If you want to send a post request you can do an x yo stop post if you want send some other requests
to put or patch.
If you've never heard of those.
Don't worry about it but you can send those requests using axioms.
It's nothing revolutionary it's nothing that we can't do without axioms.
It's just simple clean syntax that removes some of the minor pain points of using fetch.
All right.
So next we'll get some more practice.